# Snakemake_project
This projects entails converting the pipeline language scripts of two projects:MiRNA TRANSCRIPTOME ANALYSIS In TSESTE  USING BIOINFORMATIC SOFTWARE and vaccine identification. 

## MiRNA TRANSCRIPTOME ANALYSIS In TSESTE  USING BIOINFORMATIC SOFTWARE

## introduction
MicroRNAs  (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA of 21-24 nucleotide long (Lucas & Raikhel, 2013)⁠. Different studies suggest that miRNA’s function is to regulate  gene expression in almost all physiological and biological process in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes (Carthew & Sontheimer, 2009; Valencia-Sanchez et al., 2006). These genes are crucial for mRNA stability and posttranslation process within an organism 

Small RNA transcriptome data for tsetse (*G.pallidipes*) will be provided by careen.Data was analysed using the miRdeep2 software. The data was reported to have about three upregulated genes and one downregulated genes.The data of the miRNA pipeline was generated by the illumina hiseq 2500 sequencer. Both the datasets contained three replicates, which was used during the identification of miRNA genes determined from G.pallidipes genome

The reads for the  datasets are from two developmental stages that is larvae and pupae. The datasets are in raw forms of fastq libraries. which have three replicates of validataions. 

## PIPELINE
The methodology used in this study to analysis miRNA includes:
1.Quality assements/
2.genome annotation 
3.filtering out other types of small non coding RNA 
4.miRNA analysis(miRNA identification and miRNA differential expression)
5.Target prediction

## Project Task
1.Reproduce the pipeline by setting up the workspace in the system you will be using
2.Perform downstream analysis for miRNA analysis
3.Convert the pipeline into Nextflow or Snakemake

Through the project, you need to demonstrate collaborative research skills, informative visualization, and report writing.



